---
title: "pChanger"
lang: en
collection: publications
category: thesis
permalink: /publication/2024-05-17-pChanger
excerpt: 'In this thesis, we introduced pChanger, a programmable heavy changer prediction method based on time slots. This approach enables data planes on programmable switches to predict heavy changers by balancing performance and resource utilization, employing supervised machine learning techniques.The evaluation results indicate that pChanger achieved an accuracy of 99% and a recall of 75% on the data plane with near-linear runtime for predictions.'
date: 2024-05-17
slidesurl: 'https://xuanquanchen.github.io/files/publications/pChanger/pChanger-slides.pdf'
paperurl: 'https://xuanquanchen.github.io/files/publications/pChanger/pChanger-paper.pdf'
---


Heavy changer is flows change dramatically between two consecutive periods
exceeds a specific threshold and can be viewed as a signal of congestion or malicious attacks.
Identifying heavy flows (e.g., heavy hitters and heavy changers) in network traffic helps to
improve network performance. It has many benefits to perform prediction of heavy changers
within the data plane including eliminating extra communication between the control plane
and the data plane and detecting the very beginning packages arrived at the switches.
However, it is challenging due to extremely limited resource availability and the stringent
requirements of fast packet processing. There are several proposed methods and systems in
the research community for conducting network measurements on high-speed networks, yet
there currently exists no advanced method to predict heavy changes in the data plane of
programmable switches. In this thesis, we introduced pChanger, a programmable heavy
changer prediction method based on time slots. This approach enables data planes on
programmable switches to predict heavy changers by balancing performance and resource
utilization, employing supervised machine learning (ML) techniques. In our evaluation, we
first tested pChanger with traces and deployed it on bmv2 software P4 switches. The
evaluation results indicate that pChanger achieved an accuracy of 99% and a recall of 75% on
the data plane. We also demonstrate its near-linear runtime for predictions.

**Key Words:** Machine learning (ML), P4, heavy changer, programmable data plane, time slot